= Development Environment configuration =

== Sources download ==

=== Command-line Subversion ===

 * Checkout sources from the SVN repository (https://data-14.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/)

=== Eclipse project ===

 * Install CDT, Subclipse and Mylyn
 * Import a SVN project from the location https://data-14.googlecode.com/svn/ (select the version you want, usually "trunk") as a new C project named "data-14".
   In the "Select Confiurations" section go to the "Advanced settings..." and configure the "C/C++ Build".
 * '''TODO'''


== Software build ==

=== Linux ===

 * '''TODO'''

 * '''NOTE''': If the kernel module is not able to find redirfs modules version information, just copy Module.symvers from its directory to the filter directory: it will be merged on next compilation.

=== Windows ===

 * To compile the Windows module, download the [http://www.microsoft.com/whdc/DevTools/WDK/WDKpkg.mspx Windows Driver Kit (WDK)] or use a previuos [http://www.microsoft.com/whdc/DevTools/IFSKit/default.mspx Installable File System (IFS) Kit] CD.

 * The dispatcher needs the [http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/windowsserver/bb980924.aspx Windows Platform SDK] that includes the [http://www.microsoft.com/whdc/resources/downloads.mspx Debugging Tools] (so you need to download the [http://www.microsoft.com/whdc/devtools/debugging/symbolpkg.mspx kernel symbols] only). The latest covers [http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?FamilyId=F26B1AA4-741A-433A-9BE5-FA919850BDBF Windows Server 2008].

 * '''TODO'''

== Virtual machine setup ==

=== Linux ===

 * Operating System setup and debugging with [wiki:KVM]

=== Windows ===

 * '''TODO''': Use it with Qemu or other virtualization software (two serial consoles, one for the kernel debugger the other for the console).
 * '''I still can't understand how to make this work! ''' - Download [http://msdn2.microsoft.com/en-us/embedded/aa731409.aspx Windows XP Embedded] trial edition and build a 120-day Windows installation with no GUI and serial console.
